README.md, before:

# Self Attendance - Calendar-Based Attendance Tracker

<p align="center">
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142301.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142311.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142317.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142322.jpg" width="200" />
</p>

## Overview

**Self Attendance** is a **first-of-its-kind** calendar-based attendance tracking application that revolutionizes how students manage their class attendance. Unlike traditional attendance apps that only show percentages and counts, Self Attendance provides an **intuitive visual calendar interface** where you can mark attendance for specific dates, view attendance patterns at a glance, and get **smart AI-powered insights** about your bunk allowance.

### Why Self Attendance is Unique

**No other app in the market** combines these features:
- ✅ **Calendar-First Approach** - Mark attendance by date, not just incrementing counters
- ✅ **Visual Attendance Patterns** - See your attendance streaks and gaps on a calendar
- ✅ **Smart Attendance Insights** - AI tells you exactly how many classes you can bunk or need to attend
- ✅ **Date-Specific Tracking** - Every attendance record is tied to a specific date
- ✅ **Historical Data** - Complete attendance history with date-wise records

Most attendance apps only offer basic counters. **Self Attendance is the first to combine calendar visualization with intelligent attendance analysis.**

---

## Features

### 📅 Calendar-Based Attendance
- **Mark attendance on specific dates** - Click any date on the calendar to mark present/absent
- **Visual attendance overview** - See your entire month's attendance at a glance
- **Color-coded calendar** - Green for present, red for absent, gray for no class
- **Attendance streaks** - Track your longest present/absent streaks

### 🎯 Smart Attendance Insights
**Self Attendance's AI-powered system tells you exactly:**
- **"You can bunk X more classes and still stay above 75%"** - Know your bunk allowance
- **"You're just safe at 75%. Don't miss the next class"** - Critical attendance warnings
- **"Attend the next X classes to reach 75%"** - Recovery plan when below target
- **Real-time calculations** - Insights update instantly as you mark attendance

### 📊 Attendance Control Sidebar
<p align="center">
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142409.jpg" width="200" />
</p>

- **Quick overview of all subjects** - One sidebar shows insights for every subject
- **Infinite rotating gear icon** - Smooth animation when opening
- **Smart messages for each subject** - See all your bunk allowances at once
- **Direct Settings access** - Quick navigation to app settings

### 📈 Subject Management
- **Unlimited subjects** - Track attendance for all your courses
- **Custom target percentages** - Set different attendance goals (75%, 80%, etc.)
- **Subject-wise statistics** - Present, absent, and total counts per subject
- **Attendance histogram** - Visual representation of attendance distribution

### 🎨 Material You Design
<p align="center">
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142529.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142538.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142544.jpg" width="200" />
</p>

- **Material 3 expressive design** - Modern, fluid animations
- **Dynamic theming** - Adapts to your device theme
- **Custom color schemes** - Choose from multiple color palettes
- **One UI Sans font** - Clean, readable typography
- **Smooth transitions** - Polished navigation between screens

### 💾 Backup & Restore
- **Complete data backup** - Export all attendance records
- **Settings backup** - Save your preferences
- **Easy restore** - Recover data on new devices
- **Database export** - Full SQLite database backup

### 🔔 Smart Notifications
- **Attendance reminders** - Never forget to mark your attendance
- **Missed attendance alerts** - Get notified when you forget to log attendance
- **Customizable notifications** - Choose what alerts you want

---

## Screenshots

<p align="center">
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142551.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142557.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142603.jpg" width="200" />
</p>

---

## Technical Stack

### Built With
- **Kotlin** - Primary programming language
- **Jetpack Compose** - Modern declarative UI framework
- **Material 3** - Latest Material Design components
- **Room Database** - Local data persistence
- **Hilt** - Dependency injection
- **Kotlin Coroutines & Flow** - Asynchronous programming
- **MVVM Architecture** - Clean, maintainable code structure

### Key Libraries
- `androidx.compose` - Modern UI toolkit
- `androidx.room` - SQLite database abstraction
- `androidx.hilt` - Dependency injection
- `kotlinx.coroutines` - Concurrency framework
- `androidx.navigation` - Screen navigation
- `androidx.lifecycle` - ViewModel and lifecycle management

---

## Why Self Attendance Stands Out

### The Problem with Existing Apps
Most attendance trackers are just **simple counters**:
- ❌ No date association - Can't see when you attended
- ❌ No visual patterns - Just numbers
- ❌ Manual calculations - You have to figure out bunk allowance yourself
- ❌ No historical context - Can't view past months

### Self Attendance's Innovation
Self Attendance solves these by being **calendar-first**:
- ✅ **Date-specific records** - Every attendance tied to a calendar date
- ✅ **Visual calendar view** - See patterns and streaks instantly
- ✅ **AI-powered insights** - Smart calculations for bunk allowance
- ✅ **Monthly navigation** - Browse attendance history by month
- ✅ **Streak tracking** - Monitor continuous present/absent days

**No other app combines calendar visualization with intelligent attendance analysis like Self Attendance.**

---

## Download

### Latest Release
- **Version:** v1.9.0
- **Build:** 14
- **Min Android:** 8.0 (API 26)
- **Target Android:** 14.0 (API 36)

### Available APKs
Split APKs for optimal size:
- `app-arm64-v8a-release.apk` - Modern 64-bit ARM devices (6.05 MB)
- `app-armeabi-v7a-release.apk` - Older 32-bit ARM devices (6.05 MB)
- `app-x86_64-release.apk` - Intel 64-bit devices (6.05 MB)
- `app-x86-release.apk` - Intel 32-bit devices (6.05 MB)

Download the APK for your device architecture from the [Releases](../../releases) page.

---

## Installation

1. Download the appropriate APK for your device
2. Enable "Install from Unknown Sources" in your Android settings
3. Open the downloaded APK and install
4. Grant necessary permissions (notifications, storage for backup)
5. Start tracking your attendance!

---

## Usage

### Quick Start
1. **Add a Subject** - Tap the "Add Subject" button and enter subject details
2. **Set Target** - Choose your desired attendance percentage (default: 75%)
3. **Mark Attendance** - Click on the calendar date and mark present/absent
4. **View Insights** - See smart messages about your bunk allowance
5. **Check Sidebar** - Tap the rotating gear icon to see all subjects at once

### Pro Tips
- Use the **Attendance Control Sidebar** to quickly check all subjects
- Set **different targets** for different subjects based on importance
- Enable **notifications** to never forget marking attendance
- **Backup regularly** to avoid losing data
- Use the **calendar view** to spot attendance patterns

---

## Roadmap

### Planned Features
- 🔄 Timetable integration
- 📊 Advanced analytics and graphs
- 🌐 Cloud sync across devices
- 📱 Widget support
- 🎓 Semester-wise segregation
- 📧 Email reports

---

## Developer

**Developed by:** Md Farhan  
**Contact:** [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/DP-Hridayan)

---

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## Acknowledgments

- Material Design team for the beautiful components
- Jetpack Compose team for the modern UI toolkit
- The Android developer community for continuous support

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

---

## Support

If you find this app useful, please:
- ⭐ **Star this repository**
- 🐛 **Report bugs** in the Issues section
- 💡 **Suggest features** you'd like to see
- 🔄 **Share** with friends who need attendance tracking

---

<p align="center">
  <b>Self Attendance - The Smart Way to Track Attendance</b>
  <br>
  <i>Because your attendance deserves more than just a counter</i>
</p>

Commit message:

Add sponsor contact information to README

README.md, after:

# Self Attendance - Calendar-Based Attendance Tracker

<p align="center">
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142301.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142311.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142317.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142322.jpg" width="200" />
</p>

## Overview

**Self Attendance** is a **first-of-its-kind** calendar-based attendance tracking application that revolutionizes how students manage their class attendance. Unlike traditional attendance apps that only show percentages and counts, Self Attendance provides an **intuitive visual calendar interface** where you can mark attendance for specific dates, view attendance patterns at a glance, and get **smart AI-powered insights** about your bunk allowance.

### Why Self Attendance is Unique

**No other app in the market** combines these features:
- ✅ **Calendar-First Approach** - Mark attendance by date, not just incrementing counters
- ✅ **Visual Attendance Patterns** - See your attendance streaks and gaps on a calendar
- ✅ **Smart Attendance Insights** - AI tells you exactly how many classes you can bunk or need to attend
- ✅ **Date-Specific Tracking** - Every attendance record is tied to a specific date
- ✅ **Historical Data** - Complete attendance history with date-wise records

Most attendance apps only offer basic counters. **Self Attendance is the first to combine calendar visualization with intelligent attendance analysis.**

---

## Features

### 📅 Calendar-Based Attendance
- **Mark attendance on specific dates** - Click any date on the calendar to mark present/absent
- **Visual attendance overview** - See your entire month's attendance at a glance
- **Color-coded calendar** - Green for present, red for absent, gray for no class
- **Attendance streaks** - Track your longest present/absent streaks

### 🎯 Smart Attendance Insights
**Self Attendance's AI-powered system tells you exactly:**
- **"You can bunk X more classes and still stay above 75%"** - Know your bunk allowance
- **"You're just safe at 75%. Don't miss the next class"** - Critical attendance warnings
- **"Attend the next X classes to reach 75%"** - Recovery plan when below target
- **Real-time calculations** - Insights update instantly as you mark attendance

### 📊 Attendance Control Sidebar
<p align="center">
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142409.jpg" width="200" />
</p>

- **Quick overview of all subjects** - One sidebar shows insights for every subject
- **Infinite rotating gear icon** - Smooth animation when opening
- **Smart messages for each subject** - See all your bunk allowances at once
- **Direct Settings access** - Quick navigation to app settings

### 📈 Subject Management
- **Unlimited subjects** - Track attendance for all your courses
- **Custom target percentages** - Set different attendance goals (75%, 80%, etc.)
- **Subject-wise statistics** - Present, absent, and total counts per subject
- **Attendance histogram** - Visual representation of attendance distribution

### 🎨 Material You Design
<p align="center">
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142529.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142538.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142544.jpg" width="200" />
</p>

- **Material 3 expressive design** - Modern, fluid animations
- **Dynamic theming** - Adapts to your device theme
- **Custom color schemes** - Choose from multiple color palettes
- **One UI Sans font** - Clean, readable typography
- **Smooth transitions** - Polished navigation between screens

### 💾 Backup & Restore
- **Complete data backup** - Export all attendance records
- **Settings backup** - Save your preferences
- **Easy restore** - Recover data on new devices
- **Database export** - Full SQLite database backup

### 🔔 Smart Notifications
- **Attendance reminders** - Never forget to mark your attendance
- **Missed attendance alerts** - Get notified when you forget to log attendance
- **Customizable notifications** - Choose what alerts you want

---

## Screenshots

<p align="center">
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142551.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142557.jpg" width="200" />
  <img src="image that have to add in readme.md file for my github showcase/Screenshot_20251217_142603.jpg" width="200" />
</p>

---

## Technical Stack

### Built With
- **Kotlin** - Primary programming language
- **Jetpack Compose** - Modern declarative UI framework
- **Material 3** - Latest Material Design components
- **Room Database** - Local data persistence
- **Hilt** - Dependency injection
- **Kotlin Coroutines & Flow** - Asynchronous programming
- **MVVM Architecture** - Clean, maintainable code structure

### Key Libraries
- `androidx.compose` - Modern UI toolkit
- `androidx.room` - SQLite database abstraction
- `androidx.hilt` - Dependency injection
- `kotlinx.coroutines` - Concurrency framework
- `androidx.navigation` - Screen navigation
- `androidx.lifecycle` - ViewModel and lifecycle management

---

## Why Self Attendance Stands Out

### The Problem with Existing Apps
Most attendance trackers are just **simple counters**:
- ❌ No date association - Can't see when you attended
- ❌ No visual patterns - Just numbers
- ❌ Manual calculations - You have to figure out bunk allowance yourself
- ❌ No historical context - Can't view past months

### Self Attendance's Innovation
Self Attendance solves these by being **calendar-first**:
- ✅ **Date-specific records** - Every attendance tied to a calendar date
- ✅ **Visual calendar view** - See patterns and streaks instantly
- ✅ **AI-powered insights** - Smart calculations for bunk allowance
- ✅ **Monthly navigation** - Browse attendance history by month
- ✅ **Streak tracking** - Monitor continuous present/absent days

**No other app combines calendar visualization with intelligent attendance analysis like Self Attendance.**

---

## Download

### Latest Release
- **Version:** v1.9.0
- **Build:** 14
- **Min Android:** 8.0 (API 26)
- **Target Android:** 14.0 (API 36)

### Available APKs
Split APKs for optimal size:
- `app-arm64-v8a-release.apk` - Modern 64-bit ARM devices (6.05 MB)
- `app-armeabi-v7a-release.apk` - Older 32-bit ARM devices (6.05 MB)
- `app-x86_64-release.apk` - Intel 64-bit devices (6.05 MB)
- `app-x86-release.apk` - Intel 32-bit devices (6.05 MB)

Download the APK for your device architecture from the [Releases](../../releases) page.

---

## Installation

1. Download the appropriate APK for your device
2. Enable "Install from Unknown Sources" in your Android settings
3. Open the downloaded APK and install
4. Grant necessary permissions (notifications, storage for backup)
5. Start tracking your attendance!

---

## Usage

### Quick Start
1. **Add a Subject** - Tap the "Add Subject" button and enter subject details
2. **Set Target** - Choose your desired attendance percentage (default: 75%)
3. **Mark Attendance** - Click on the calendar date and mark present/absent
4. **View Insights** - See smart messages about your bunk allowance
5. **Check Sidebar** - Tap the rotating gear icon to see all subjects at once

### Pro Tips
- Use the **Attendance Control Sidebar** to quickly check all subjects
- Set **different targets** for different subjects based on importance
- Enable **notifications** to never forget marking attendance
- **Backup regularly** to avoid losing data
- Use the **calendar view** to spot attendance patterns

---

## Roadmap

### Planned Features
- 🔄 Timetable integration
- 📊 Advanced analytics and graphs
- 🌐 Cloud sync across devices
- 📱 Widget support
- 🎓 Semester-wise segregation
- 📧 Email reports

---

## Developer

**Developed by:** Md Farhan  
**Contact:** [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/DP-Hridayan)

---

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## Acknowledgments

- Material Design team for the beautiful components
- Jetpack Compose team for the modern UI toolkit
- The Android developer community for continuous support

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

---

## Support

If you find this app useful, please:
- ⭐ **Star this repository**
- 🐛 **Report bugs** in the Issues section
- 💡 **Suggest features** you'd like to see
- 🔄 **Share** with friends who need attendance tracking

### 💖 Want to Sponsor This Project?

If you'd like to support the development of Self Attendance, please contact me:

- 📧 **Email:** farhanfp20@gmail.com
- 💬 **Telegram:** [@hourslow](https://t.me/hourslow)

Your support helps me continue improving this app and adding new features!

---

<p align="center">
  <b>Self Attendance - The Smart Way to Track Attendance</b>
  <br>
  <i>Because your attendance deserves more than just a counter</i>
</p>
